welcome everyone to this week's
ipld sync meeting it's september 14th
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've
worked on the past week and then discuss
any action items we might have and
yeah and please add your name to the
attendees list and i will post the
eggplant also in the chat room
for those who don't have the link where
we also put in notes
if we have discussions um yeah and i
start with myself so in the past week
um i've worked again on the rust multi
hash stuff and
yeah polish things a bit so that um so
currently i work
on the tiny
multi-hash which is a fork of rust
multihash
and i tried to get it feature into
feature parity with rust multihash and
that's now the case
so today i've worked on actually making
a merge request which
is more smoother than i thought and
the only missing piece is that there is
blake 3 support
in rust multihedge which isn't yet in
tiny
multihash but yeah we'll come soon so
that's the missing piece and then it's
ready to be merged
and then we again have one upstream
version which hopefully then everyone
will use and that's also what i kind of
concentrate on this week
to get this actually merged and then
also really p2p using it
and ipl using it and so on
yes that's pretty much it um next on my
list
is danielle cool
so last week i finished getting up to
speed on the docks on specs
early last week i also sent up a request
with
an exploration report on my experience
getting up to speed which is mostly what
pieces i found confusing
and i also started a thread in the go
channel on slack
about moving the go import paths from
github.com
ipld to our own ipld.io domain
which has some advantages such as being
for future proof
so i've started a draft of a more formal
discussion of
how we could go about this and that in
that linked hack end either
and with some help from eric i'm also
starting
to look at kawaii pld adl hand
which is supposed to be like an
implementation of a hand with the new
ypld prime library
so i don't have a lot to report there
yet because i've been mainly
reading the existing code and reading on
this data structure
but i am making slow progress but that's
it for this week
thanks um next on my list that's right
and not a whole lot to report for me
this week i haven't been well and um
so not a high productivity week but
mainly
working on this block storage api
which is meant rewriting the card
library basically
pulling it into pieces and then putting
it back together again um
with a a much more modern
feeling api that's not doesn't have
hangovers from
some old um abstraction that has
got its history in places that no one
remembers anymore
so um that's working okay
um i mean i'm happy with the simplicity
of the api
um but the this conversation with gaza
about the
uh dependency injection of the block
and multi-format stuff um
it's interesting and does impact it as
well um
i don't really know where that's going
although he seems to
um have an end point in mind and trying
to
uh engage with that with him and we've
been having some other conversations
about
other javascript apis that we'd like to
see
but aside from that nothing major to
report
thanks next one is eric
i have not prepared my notes this week
so i've been scrambling to remember what
the heck
uh was this week i think it was mostly
docks and specs and talks
and stuff and communicating about docs
and specs and
stuff um
i have just yelled a bunch more docs
into the docs repo about
um i finally put the
codex conversations in there i did a
little bit of
high level structuring and leaving some
stubs for other things
included a table of contents over a
bunch of stuff
so there's plenty more to do's in there
but
i hope that that skeleton is something
that we can build upon usefully in the
future
um i had a couple more conversations
with um
ian and the peer golfs folks this last
week
um they are doing some really
fascinating
stuff and some of it of course grows to
be
application specific in a way that is
very much peer goss
logic and um and not something that we
would be likely to do in ipld alone
because it just
accumulates opinions especially when
cryptography gets involved as you might
imagine
but they're kind of interested in making
more of their
libraries reusable around the ipld data
handling
which would be really cool because they
are of course writing in java
and we i don't think anybody else on the
call is currently maintaining java
libraries so
it would be awesome if somebody is
taking that on
talked a little bit about the challenges
there it's
java's got a strong type system that
requires design discussions
um yeah that's enough details for that
um i've been trying to wrap my head more
around the advanced data layout stuff
the adl
stuff so both talking about that with
danielle and also
i tried to build a demo adl that's the
simplest possible thing
i tried to make a rot 13 string
adl um and so there's a branch
not even a pr yet i should turn it into
a more conversational format but there's
a branch in the guidability prime repo
which pokes
at this and how to make the interfaces
work and what to call some of this stuff
um i did a little bit of work
propagating library changes downstream
so um go graph sync and
the protobuf based repos that we have
for [ __ ] pld prime both have prs after
them now to get them up to the latest
major versions of the
interfaces uh and unix of sp2 got
another round of drafting
i almost forgot until i saw michael
typing it into his nose so thank you
michael
um yep trying
trying to get that discussion moving
along a little bit further
um now that we've got more and more
grounding of like adls and how they fit
into this picture and like oh yeah
directories are really just maps with
this black box that handles the sharding
i think every time we go at the unix of
sp2 specs they get a little bit simpler
every time we do it so this is i think
this is the simplest one yet and i guess
maybe i'll let michael talk more about
that
so that'll be it for me
thanks uh next is michael hey
um yeah let me actually pull it up
because there was a bunch of stuff on
here that i've kind of forgotten okay
yeah
um i fixed some bugs in the block api
and in a bunch of our little javascript
libraries um
i went in and updated the fbl
implementation
in js to the latest spec and all of our
latest steps
um and then i implemented eric's new
unix thus v2
draft um which is actually really
pleasant and easy um to implement like
the highly consistent version of it
because we're not doing any of the
inlining and it actually
it composes really well it looks really
well one of the nice things about it is
that
a file is just an fbl
so it's just our flexible byte layout
which
is really nice for reuse it means that
you can kind of take any
binary object that you have because
the fbl schema allows you to inline the
bytes as well
so you can really take like any binary
representation and now that's just a
file
and so if you were to imagine us
implementing that in the gateway
you'd be able to give it any cid to any
fbl
and it would be able to read it as a
file as well um and then
you know on top of the file we add the
attributes as part of the directory
structure and as part of the the hamp
that goes into that
and when we keep it really consistent
and we just make all directories
enhanced and make
all files fbls then um it's actually
really easy to implement and really
consistently hashed everywhere so
it's it's pretty nice um there's a bunch
of places that we'll probably end the
bike shutting on
but i think it's a nice direction for
the the spec to go in
um and i was really happy with little
implementation that i did
um then over the weekend i started
poking around at a podcast
client um i wanted to write a little
podcast client that would basically live
in github and so it's using dagdb
and the new github git lfs stuff in
dagdb
so basically it'll every hour go and
look at all your podcasts and then pull
all that metadata into the database
and then it'll generate html for the
entire application and then it's so then
it's just static
website that you pull down and then in
the static website you can in a service
worker pull
up all of the data and then actually
map on top of that all of the data that
you're in your player and all that kind
of stuff so it's like
it's an interesting approach to like a
distributed app that just kind of lives
in github
and takes advantage of some of the
github actions as like kind of a cloud
service but much more personalized to
each individual
so that was that's been fun to poke with
um i ended up
adding a bunch of features to to dagdb
just using dag to be right now like
surfaces a lot of things that could be
nicer so i've just been fixing that as
we go
um and the last thing i want to talk
about um
is probably something that we need to
discuss like as a group maybe towards
the end
but um i've been talking with a few
folks about like what the structure
uh the team and the work that we do
could be sort of after the filecoin
launch
um and something that's been coming up
is that the
project framing is not great for what
our team does
um we work a lot on just data structures
and we work on
ipld and multi-formats and things on
ipld
and a huge part of what we're doing is
like building these data structures and
then dog fooding the data structures to
figure out what's going on and
collaborating with other teams that need
data structures
um and so yeah a lot of other people are
in a similar boat where like the project
framing is not working for them but a
couple things that i think that it's
pushed us in the wrong direction
or a little bit too far in one direction
is like we've
overly focused on implementations and
not paid as much attention to the
protocols
um like we're protocol labs we're not
project labs
um and we have all these specs
but we don't have great tools around
compliance we have not done a great job
like whenever anybody has like a new
implementation of something we we're
like oh why didn't they use our thing or
whatever
we're not really thinking about it as
like no these are really simple to
implement
protocols we should take it as a sign of
success when people implement like
another multi-format thing or another
ipld thing
um and just kind of integrate that into
our view of the project better
and if they're having problems like
we've seen people having problems like
encoding seabor for instance um because
dag cbor is so restrictive
we should be prioritizing building
better tools and better specs for them
um to deal with that those compliance
issues um rather than just trying to
funnel everybody into a couple
implementations that we've written
um so yeah i've just been kind of
unwinding that a bit and thinking about
that
and um it's like a framing for the team
in the project that um
i think that we could probably do with
some discussion on ongoing for the next
like few weeks at least
and that's my update thanks
um i think that's it for the updates
johnny do you want to say something
oh i think you're still muted somehow it
says zoom that you're unmuted but i
don't hear you and i see you talking
you're set up for like a full podcast i
don't know why we can't hear you
yeah sometimes when my uh goes to sleep
it puts the mic to sleep because it goes
through the
hub but um so just just a detail on what
you just said i think um so i'm having a
major challenge with the did
specification so the decentralized
identifier it mostly has to do with this
seabor
so they're threatening to drop seabor
support from the specification because i
can't represent
seabor cose keys properly and the
challenge is that it is a mixed media
types
and so i can't express it completely in
seabor
um uh and i can't because we don't have
the full
int as key representative in like the
dag
um c representation
and the challenge i think and we talked
before with like three bucks and whatnot
about this the use of a uh uh
ipld link and actually basically using a
cid or that cid might be like a base 32
with a
ed 2 5 5 1 9 public key
multi codec and then just the bytes that
actually goes after it
and so the challenge is that there's
more metadata that actually has to wrap
that
including like an id field a type field
and so um it also gets into like a bike
shed naming problem which is like what
do you call this attribute
that the link is a dag
cos a public publicly and also the
challenge is that in coset
and seabor or in or even in cose
c board signing and encryption there's
no
tag for a public key it's actually
application specific and so like you
have to
define it in your application so there's
actually
no key node tag that says hey this is
cbor
and this section of it is actually is is
the x and
the curve etc and so it's uh so
it mostly has to do with mixed media
types i'm trying to advocate
let's just keep it in json serialize to
cbore
in which case it's just key value pairs
and the key could be string
and basically you could do jw keys
jason webb keys as jason
butting serialized to seabor and let's
just start off with that and so i'm
getting major pushback
as far as like um the dag seabor stuff i
put in
um which is basically ipld and i wrote a
bunch of stuff for just generic seabor
uh with explaining how things could be
expanded
using tags but they're like oh well this
is like no one's really using this
and um you need at least three
implementations
and like hey listen i've got ipid which
i created
i wrote the specification myself those
guys in
portugal remember those guys um uh so
and then there's another guy who's in
like germany or austria who actually
created like a vr
app that actually is using ipid so um
but it's
it's talking about bike shedding and
like standards process
is like i'm it's just uh so frustrating
so
how how okay how can you can you guys
give me some help
so so i i wanna back up a little bit and
make sure that i understand the problem
so
if i recall where we landed on dag
cose was that when you use the dag coset
codec it's just a regular cosa
with a binary field that you're signing
and the binary field is a binary
representation of a cid it's assumed to
be a cid like that was
where we landed yes exactly exactly and
then
if you want to do anything else with
cose you just make it
use the kosei codec instead of the dag
coseco
right um and so but they're saying that
they want
more so they need to be able to sign
something more than that
no so it's about actually this whole
thing about cryptographic agility
is that you want to represent your keys
so the did specification
is all just basically publishing your
public keys so but
there's this whole like library that of
naming [ __ ]
that of like describing uh uh
authentic verification method jwk
2 2020 that's basically like we created
this thing
we're calling it special we named it in
and it has a very specific purpose which
is uh did authentication
and uh and is represented as a jwk and
they want me to do a one-to-one mapping
of this exact same thing all in seabor
to represent the key so it's it's yes
eventually it's about
signing it using the keys but the did
methods
are about publishing your public key
data
and there's this whole field of of
cryptographic agility of declaring the
type of of key
um at the class of key in the type of
key so gets really gets into linked data
signatures
rdf models um and just that by naming
things you invoke it
and it has special meaning
so but so this sounds like a coset issue
more than a dag case
issue right because does is it kosei
basically saying that you can't have all
of that metadata in the key
yeah so um so you need to wrap it and so
the challenge is that you can actually
basically create
the a key a cos a key representation
cozy key format but and that's which is
fine which is basically you're doing it
as intes keys with
uh parameters and etc and x and y and
and uh don't use d because d is for
private keys
all right so you have this this blob now
there has to be this way of actually
saying
hey this thing that i i represented in
in seabor as co as cose this actually
has
some special meaning it's a basically i
and
there's something that they did suggest
is uh public key multi-codec
and i think that that may be where we
land um
but the challenge is that well that
multicodec is really
it's a multi-base multi-codec because
actually a public key multi-base is like
hey this is in a
base 64 encoding of a
ed25519 public key and here's the
public key bytes represented in that
i just can't help but feel like there
needs to be some layering here and
you can't take every problem and put it
in the same layer in the same spec
which seems to be what they want to do
um like like this is like why you have
separations of concerns
yeah and i think so i'm mostly trying to
settle on like hey
you guys want to do jason ld all right
cool that's fine we can do that i can do
json ld on top of ipld basically adding
an ad context and it has something
magical purpose
and that in the attributes are even
though suddenly actually like from a
cryptography standpoint like suddenly
it's mutable it's a it's a mutable
external dictionary
which means that all i need to do is do
a man in the middle attack and basically
trick you
to reroute the signature to a different
field or a null field
and in many cryptographic libraries null
equals true
so like there's going to be this huge uh
security vulnerability years from now
and uh so uh anyways that's good that's
gonna be a topic for my um
my defcon uh meeting next year but
in the meantime here's how you hack it
yeah exactly that's exactly what i'm
gonna do
i don't know why they want to ruin their
specs so much like i don't i don't
understand the standards body
um no and one warned me when i actually
i this is like two three years ago he
said like are you sure you want to do
that
like even actually offered to pay me to
support me to to do this
and i said no no i got it the piece of
cake man
famous last words right yeah oh man
no i mean yeah
i don't why i like i still don't
understand why the ink keys
became a requirement at some point in
there like why why did that well
compaction i suppose compaction
and i think it did that did document
doesn't really need to be compacted i
think they're following
their people that need to name
everything explicitly for every explicit
use case are worried about [ __ ]
shaving bites off of the keys on the
[ __ ] map
what tell me about it
so i think mostly i'm settling on um all
right you guys want to do jason
jason ld that's fine um i'm going to do
a more robust like
ideally that context because i argued
for
it has to be it can be a uri not just a
url so basically that
left a a footprint for um
ipfs colon slash slash or ideally ipld
colon
slash but you get to like a rooting
problem is like if you branch it
like you know you you get this issue as
far as like naming conventions as far as
like
i added a middle name and and your
schema only had first and last
are we talking about the same middle
name that you talked about and so
but that's uh more sort of rooting
problem but um and
at the at context i think i have a way
of actually basically creating um
ipfs or ipld and they add contacts so
basically it's it's now
an immutable reference to the dictionary
um and that decides i think i've at
least in my libraries i've actually
satisfied that but it's um
so mostly i'm just dealing with this
mixed media type and i'm okay with
uh strings uh byte string uh as
keys and actually i left that in the
specification
and there's this thing called uh cbor ld
cbor link data which basically you
describe an external dictionary and that
basically
is a a map of attributes
and to hints so or
you know there's also an algorithmic
approach which is basically you
sort the those maps by magic
and then basically this one is zero this
one is one this and
it's based on your sorting algorithm but
then again like it's it's ultimately
it's it's
vulnerable to well how did you sort it
did you actually get the right
external dictionary in which case you
could hit is open up to
vulnerabilities
well mostly just i appreciate you guys
listening to me [ __ ]
yeah no it sounds like kind of a
disaster um
yeah i'm so so frustrated because i've
actually i finally got it into the
specification for both the describing
seabor with tags and then specifically
dagsebor
with uh cids and i pointed to the tag 42
and i said hey
and we basically we can do uh signatures
and we can do
uh dag cos a signatures this way
and also the key id would be the did
key url and it will point and say you
can actually go fetch the public key et
cetera
but this is the last thing i'm stuck on
which is and they're they're giving me
like
uh two weeks otherwise it gets pulled
because they want to go to cr no i got a
candidate release
can you just clarify something for me
because i'm like not i'm not like up to
date on what's been going on here at all
um is are they mostly just
hung up on the fact that they need to
type everything and that there's no
like inherent like
we don't have like a type named thing of
like oh here is the schema that refers
to this data
and they're all like really happy to use
like html links for things
and we don't have like a cid we don't
have a way of using like a cid to
describe a schema
and then like call that a day is that is
that what's holding things up
yeah mostly because actually it's just
like this dependency on
uh jason ld and which is all mutable
um http links and um and that is the
that's where the web of the semantic web
fell apart
which is basically it's they're not
persistent and they're really not urls
the uris
that describe the reason an identifier
that just finds it
a thing and so um and when that that
that um description is offline
then you can't have logic in your
semantic ontology
and uh so and i think there has been
some discussions in the ipld world
and of conversations
with rdf models and i think there's even
actually a
multi codec suggested for rdf
but the challenge is that rdf by nature
actually has cycles in it so
it gets into some concern as far as our
is it it's not it's not a dag
rdf model it's a cyclic rdf model and so
many of these actually have cycles that
are again
are you you could get lost into an in
like um
in this loop or they uh they change
they're mutable
and they're not persistent i mean
they're supposed to have cycles or is
this like an artifact of because
everything has
is mutable they could have cycles yeah
the latter they could or they should uh
they could have
cycles they shouldn't but um a lot of
them are self-describing that you
basically you get like this thing and it
says oh as i'm talking about myself
at this this and it uses a fragment
identifier to
describe the the id within my own
document
so i remember talking to like what was
mono about this maybe like a year and a
half ago and
his answer to like the but it's mutable
what happens when the website goes away
is like oh no we swear everybody has the
website cached locally
right which seems like couldn't you just
use
a static identifier and that would be
and like use a cid and call it a day
yeah and i think what i've actually
suggested as far as like the
like json schema which i actually did
this whole a lot of like just the
validation of the document and json
schema
where the json schema identifier was the
hash of the document with the identifier
removed
so that basically like you're you're
creating a new hash but it's okay
because you basically can self-verify
that this document
is the identifier and it's just assumed
so um but here i can show you share my
screen and uh
show you the document
and um maybe give you an example of
am i sharing yeah um
so here's the the seabor section that i
created
and this is um cddl markup language
notation
um but basically what i did is here's
the
uh in the seabor pretty print um uh
export which is basically the cid the um
did document is basically just this is
just strings
these are text um you know a created
field with a
um a date
timestamp and in in seaboard this could
be more
concise with a tag that would be
specific for dates
and the same thing for like the the
public key so here
whatever identifier uh and here's where
they actually like to do like type this
is an
e dsa public key type i think actually
there's a better example so here it is
basically in json
so um so yeah so here's the verification
method as an array
which is an object and it's basically ex
explicitly stating the type information
and then um i had wanted to use um
uh links in this as basically uh uh
cids with maybe dag um coz
sibor because dag cos a is about the
signature
aspect of it
anyways but this is actually where i put
that bit uh tag like uh
here's here's a cozy signature with a
tag 42 with the bytes which is basically
the c id
so that's where that falls in
i i i don't know any thoughts as far as
like uh
i'm also all alone because like they say
that there's no one really sort of
implementing this
and so um this approach with the dag
uh seabor despite it being
pretty straightforward
yeah that's unfortunate um i mean i know
that there are folks that are using
jose and kosei with some of our stuff
and that's driving the
dag jose cosey conversations but i don't
know anybody specifically
doing a bunch of did stuff um
i mean no that's not true so
there are people putting did information
into ipfs
but i think they're putting them
literally into files or and things
look like yeah ion or elements is as
using
with a whole bunch of blobs that they
have an algorithm to go through and it's
stored json data i thought ipld was
actually much more elegant
and i think uh yeah it's a solution to
it and it's also
it's i'm i'm really trying to be all
immutable hashes everything
there's no ability in it there's there's
even that
the context is actually was going to be
immutable uh i think
just to clarify the the microsoft people
like the ion
folks i think are pretty willing
to do ipld stuff i think they just
weren't really exposed to it
and that was just like exfs is just the
easiest way to get anything to move
around
um they did everything the easiest way
and then they've been uh adjusting now
they've got like on the production and
so yeah we pointed them in the direction
of ipld and they're pretty
into it so i wouldn't be surprised if
they moved in that direction
yeah other than that i just i don't know
i don't know i have a hard time with the
uh the semantic web folks
um partly because i wasted a bunch of my
time there in the 2000s
and so i don't i like still have like
some some ptsd about it or something but
it's just
i there was this vision for a data layer
for the web
and at some point they compromised on
not a data layer for the web but a
serialization layer for the web for
semantic data
so they became very comfortable with the
idea that databases are going to exist
and they're going to silo information
but we're always
we're just going to have the
serialization layer that presents all of
that information to the web in a
semantic way for people to get more
value out of it
and i don't think that that model is
really going to reshape
the web and that's not really a data
layer for the web and if you're going to
build a real data layer and build real
data structures and databases and file
systems and these things that people
need then
you need structures that are more stable
than like
these json documents with mutable links
in them that can
[ __ ] circular like that's crazy like
you just can't
you can't build stable structures that
way um
but if you live in that world and
they're really comfortable in that world
then it's it's hard to have these
conversations
i don't know but is it hard for them to
get you
like maybe i'm maybe i'm
misunderstanding but
as long as they give you like a uri
right as long as every time they have a
mutable link you can replace it with an
immutable link and then you can just
call
in your little world of things all of
their stuff is like invalid
is that is that not sufficient like as
long as your thing is a subset of their
thing
yeah so it still gets just into this um
a naming problem so
here's uh i think i put something in so
it's um
let's see if you can read this
oh it's probably not formatted right but
basically here let's say it's an object
and this is a part of the did document
and it's a verification method
and that has an array it's of objects
and that object is
a type in this case it's a verification
key just generic it has a controller
and right now i'm saying it's a public
key
and this is going to let's say a base 32
encoded
link cid which is an ed255
public codec and basically it follows
actually the public bytes is basically
inline
so sorry if it's hard to read yeah
um
oh yeah this because it's uh yeah so
here's a a faked version of it
so it's um
there we go and so i think it's
ultimately just about naming it's about
bike shedding which is that we have some
special
name for this um type and
this this public key that what they're
wanting to do is basically say
um that it is
it's a public key um
multi codec 2020
and something that has special purpose
and uh
uh and it's basically like it's it's
somehow registering that into a registry
that says oh what follows is going to be
um that type and i think but it's going
to be a never-ending battle of actually
maintaining and keeping up
these registries up to date and who who
maintains that that's not really a sort
of a scalable solution it's also very
centralized uh into uh in this case
described in the at context
okay i think i finally got it that
basically the the
key name defines what the type is
and you want to have a different type
than they want to have there so
therefore they say you need a different
name
because it's not the same type and that
can be done in the ad context and so i
suppose like um
so that would be
and i would actually want to have this
as ipld
actually no this would be uh so um
because it has to be interoperable this
they don't let me do
an object link um
like that with a cid so i actually have
to create
this as a string that's the must and
um that would be like i am suggesting um
at least right now
support is ipfs but i think ipld
and then actually would be then the cid
and then in that document that context
describes
what these public key multi-codec 2020
is
and then there's a human description of
it and that can be then parsed and
oops you get the idea
that's somewhat reasonable
but mostly it's just going through and
actually having to they want
examples of all of this in seabor and
i'm like wow
c-board is nice we don't need to do that
intes key is
is nice for compaction but let's just
get to
agreement but now like jws has its own
public key mechanism
ipld will have its own mechanism uh
cwts will actually have their own
pem those public key pem uh encoding
is going to have their own there's one
for x509
and that mostly that's where i landed
which is basically i have to
create these as a json ld describe
description or add them to the registry
and
they have special meaning because the
the link is going to be a cid
um and that cid i think um
yeah so let me guys just share my screen
again
so a quick question what i what i don't
get is like
isn't the whole point of the context
that you can interpret the
the contents differently like i mean
like
so you have the context so wouldn't it
make sense to have the same
key names because the context defines
how to interpret the key names
so why are the key names specific to the
context is the question clear sorry
yeah yeah yeah so mostly it's um it's
kind of
trying to boil the ocean as far as like
just naming things and like it's like
this cryptographic golem is what i
accused it of it's basically like you're
you're invoking its name and it gives
life to it and so i think
but that's all it is like you're
basically just declaring it and because
the
the charter says that they're not
allowed to create new cryptographic
algorithms
and this is where it gets interesting
like declaring es256
k-r defines
the recovery signature recovery
mechanism of ethereum signatures
so that that is basically a new thing
it's
in the ethereum world yeah but basically
recovering the signature with an extra
byte
that's not registered in iana it's not
registered in the jwts or java
json web signatures um so uh it
basically it's this new thing
um and uh
so but they're getting around it by uh
naming things
and uh and then this
ability to have cryptographic agility by
saying that there
there's verification methods that this
type of key is
only used for authentication is not
used for signing a credential for
instance
i know i spend too much time talking
about it
but i i appreciate most of you guys
listening to me [ __ ]
but this example at the bottom is
basically i this is all just basically
uh key value pairs so the cid in the
public key multi-codec
is basically just uh describing the
curve the key type
the and the x coordinate for in this
case
ed25519
in which case i just do that in json so
there's actually no reason to
do that that could basically basically
be
done more simply and elegantly but we
have to get
agreements as far as the the meaning the
semantics
of uh if i just give
object with curve ed25519 in this
information
like that we need to know that that is a
public key format
all right um so um
[Music]
are there any other things that people
want to discuss
or just give updates or um
i mean if people are are cool i could
tell them a little bit about my
my looking around at what what caused me
to send that that message out about
uh you know
how you might have alternative proofs
other than just a hash for what
data is um
basically there's just a lot of content
that already exists
on the web and that people have found
people have found through other
mechanisms right they found them through
websites they found them through
wherever
uh and even in locations where there is
already like a shot 256 of the file
there's no way for me to know how to
find it
over ipfs um
and similarly we have we have things
that are we'll call it like
we have codecs that we sort of
are not fully compatible with and that
you know
git objects are happy to be 100 megs but
if we refuse to send
blocks that are more than a meg then
things stop working
and there isn't necessarily like an easy
answer for this
but even if you were to go through all
of the work of finding like
an alternative cryptographic proof that
makes this thing self-certifying that
says
this old thing can also be represented
as this new thing
i have no idea where we would glue it in
in our stack
you could glue it in in the as a special
multi-hash you could glue it in as a
codec you could glue it in as an adl
it's not clear where any of these things
would fit um
and so i guess the question boils down
to if i had a
long self-certifying thing so not
not a hash but something not like a
256-bit hash
but something longer than we would feel
comfortable calling a cid
what would be do we have any interest in
representing those things and how would
we consider doing it
what is the reason that they need to be
the identifier
i find i go to the ubuntu website i find
the shot 256 of an iso
i want to know if the data exists on
ipfs
okay yeah okay yeah yeah um
so i don't understand what the
cryptographic proof
is that is asserted as being
a primitive that we have that can do a
thing that we want to do
i guess here are two examples here are
two examples
i give you a magic snarg that proves to
you
that uh shot 256 of file
equals the
shot 256 of all of the leaf blocks that
are referred to by the cid
right that's like the magic snarg
approach another one would be
that sounds like something that i want
but it doesn't sound like something that
uh how do i compose it and what does
this thing cost to produce
how hard does somebody have to want to
lie
in order to make this do the opposite of
what i want it to do
and like how can i prevent that i don't
understand how to compose any of this or
if this primitive even exists
well maybe here's one that's like a
little easier and a little more
like it has has problems but like
i guess something you can wrap your mind
around a little more
i could slowly build i could build like
another merkle tree
whereas i'm slowly unwinding this thing
right all the way down to the root
to the to the leaf blocks i also include
the intermediate
shot 256 hashes right
because the thing is uh the thing is a
miracle damn guard construction i can
just glue these things together
and you know exposing intermediate state
isn't great
but you might be able to use that to get
to gain some confidence that actually
this new dag represents the same data in
the old dag
so now i have two cids that can refer to
the same content
as long as i'm willing to have some sort
of understanding that same
doesn't mean the same dag but the same
leaf nodes glued together because i have
some definition of a context that's
important to me
right i believe that somebody can do
such hashing and then produce
such a tree um and then i believe that
you could compose another document which
refers to both of those hashes
and then i could of course hash that
because i can hash anything and that's
always a primitive that we have
but i don't understand how that document
is supposed to let anyone
else trust my claim like i just hashed
this random ass claim that i made
right and so so i don't
so like if i were to find i i look up
and advertise when i say hey does anyone
have
um does anyone have a this thing with
the sha256 hash
and they respond and they say uh
i do it's actually represented by this
dag
and here i've submitted this proof that
shows that
this um this half of the dag
has like
this half of the dag requires
these pieces of the of the partial
of like the intermediate hashes
and then this half you know requires
these ones and i can glue them together
in the same way that you can
um like i can try
i understand it's hard to describe this
i can try and write it up more more like
formally so we can talk about
it later but the point is like even if
this magic even if the construction
exists
right and it takes a it may it takes
like a meg to represent
where do i stuff this thing even if it
were to exist well
but i think that like the use case
really matters for where you would want
to
stick it like like why you're doing it
actually really does matter in terms of
where you want to put it in the stack
um and and i think one of the reasons
why i'm having a slightly hard time with
this is that
um there's just better ways to do this
if you're building something from
scratch so that that sort of inherently
means that
if you're doing this then you're doing
it to integrate with some kind of
legacy right like a bunch of people have
these isos
that have this shaw on them and so we
want to integrate with
like all of those external systems or
those you know um
those storage systems or whatever they
might be and so we've constructed this
way to bridge them together
um because if you were just doing it
from scratch if you're just building out
a use case where like
hey i i want people who have parts of
this to be able to share it and i want
to be able to like know when they
when we basically have the same data if
you're working with the fbl
uh byteless stuff you can reuse each
section of the byte list
really easily and then you have hashes
for every single part of it
and so you have like the you basically
have the ideal hashing for validating
each part of that data in whatever
network and whatever people
that you pull it from you don't have to
map some external context on top of that
and then reconstruct a hash for some
like random slice of the data
that's being represented so there's like
a better way to do that with the
primitives that we already have
um so if you're building what you're
talking about it would it would
literally be because like oh people
already have this iso
iso and they're already seating it by
some kind of hash
um but even in that meeting
pre-agreement it's about not needing
like pre-agreement
so like let's say i go
and uh i don't know let's say npm has a
list of
has a list of the hashes of all of the
binaries they distribute
right but i'm not i can't convince
every i i can't convince everybody
um who publishes on npm to also publish
an ipfs hash
and b i can't convince this i
i can't convince npm to like chunk up
everything
and dump the ipfs hash there also so
what i say is
given that you trust npm and you
therefore trust that this hash is the
file you're looking for
is there a more efficient way to is
there like a peer-to-peer way to find
this thing
right but what you're talking about now
is built you're building google for
for the distributed web you're building
an index of you're building a metadata
index over
what everybody else is doing with with
these hashtags
so like like like that that is
effectively
you know google for npm on ipfs
right like you're just indexing some
data that exists inside of these
structures so that you can give people
like access to the actual cids that they
can then go and pull the data out of the
network
except untrusted right
right like the the reason why we have
block sizes that aren't
gigabyte is so that i don't have to
download more than one mega of stuff
without knowing that it's garbage and
then banning the pier
right yeah the other approaches of like
oh i'm just advertising that like
by the way this this graph happens to
equal this
100 gigabyte file i swear it doesn't do
that because i have to download the
whole thing and then hash it to see if
it matches
yeah i mean i i know that you can do
again like i keep having the hardest
time with this because like i know
what some of these proofs can do
but the use cases for them are so narrow
that
without really understanding what
they're being used for i have a hard
time figuring out where we fit it in
i want to make a weaker statement than
that and ask for more information
i do not understand what these proofs do
the word proof has been used and is
extremely magical to me in this
conversation
and i would like to set up this
trust is part of this right and trust
about denial of service is part of it
but i don't know what kind of proof can
give me this
thing that i want and
i have heard other people in our
periphery say for example oh zk snarks
can do this magical thing that i
definitely want
and that is the amount of information
that i have received from somebody who
is making that claim
um and i do not believe it without
massively more detailed substantiation
it's a
very it's too desirable i don't believe
it
without a heck of a lot of detailed
proof
yeah so i'm not i i can try and write up
a little more some of the thoughts of
the things that i'm familiar with as
opposed to things where i would like
need help on on like what cryptographic
mechanisms make sense but in terms of
what is the definition of proof
that i am referring to it is i would
like a way
to prove the statement given a
particular interpretation
of the relevant pieces of data these two
graphs
are equivalent to me and i would like
such a
such a statement to be interpretable by
downloading no more than one megabyte at
a time before knowing the whole thing is
garbage
those are my two requirements i don't
know if you can necessarily get it to
one megabyte but just like pretend for a
second that a torrent file
is a snark
right like it's a it it literally says
like here are all the slices of the file
and here's all of their hashes
and then if you ask people for that file
and they're like oh yeah i have that i
have a different data structure for it
here's some of the data
as long as you get each piece of the
data in the torrent file
you can reconstruct and rehash to figure
out if it matches each of those hashes
right
and then it's torn file is going to be
less than a meg to download the proof
and then you would have enough data to
yeah i mean you're probably going to
download a little more than one data one
megabyte of data
from people but so if you had we'll call
let's say they were
let's just let's say the whole thing was
some sort of like you know rolling hash
where i can just like add them up
together like the addition of like four
you know if i add them in the correct
order they add up to the correct hash
right then sure i could do that you
could give me a torrent file with the
manifest the sub things and i add them
up in the correct order and everything
works
but our primitives don't work quite like
that no no
every st every sub thing in the torrent
file has a hash
it breaks up the file into parts for
each hash so you would have
a bunch of hashes for each slice of the
file
and those aren't going to exactly match
like a unix of s file
but you can download that part of the
unix of this file
and then take that part and hash it and
see if it matches the hash in this one
but they don't match the thing i got off
the like i mean like from the place
yeah right this is the thing is that you
know if i go to a random place i go to
like one of these antivirus guys
and i know that they have they published
that the shot 256 of this file is good
okay cool so the only identifier that is
content based and not website based
that i have for this thing is a sha-256
of the whole file
that's all i've got and i need to
somehow turn that into
a thing i can go searching for on a
peer-to-peer network
and we have only two minutes left for
the meeting so just in case
someone has anything else um
last chance or i also see a new face so
in case someone wants to introduce
themselves really quick
at the end of the meeting sorry for not
which i mean earlier
hi um can you hear me yeah yeah
um so i'm actually a phd student in
uh ccn anthropology at mit i'm not a
person but i've been following different
projects
that aim to in some way decentralize the
web and
um and i came and everyone told everyone
who i possibly told me about
its and um university get familiar with
your project i decided to attend your
meeting first which is
very very difficult to follow for
someone who doesn't know coding but
i've been trying to it's basically like
um
listening to a language a new language
that you don't know i'm trying to learn
it by just listening to it but
uh yeah that's me
thanks yeah i i also have to say that
like especially this meeting today was
extreme
like normally i would expect the
meetings to be
easier to follow um so um in case you
want to chime
in uh next week again feel free to join
again
um it's probably easier like this week
was really like yeah
thank you for making these open to
public thanks
um cool thanks um all right so
uh we are um at the end of the meeting
and so
thanks everyone for um attending and
yeah
see you all next week again goodbye